---
layout: default
title: ".Astronomy 2 - Leiden, 2009"
---

<div class="event-hero">
<div class="event-num">.Astronomy 2</div>
<h1>Leiden, Netherlands, 2009</h1>
<div class="event-meta">
<span>📅 30 November – 4 December 2009</span>
<span>📍 Lorentz Centre, Leiden University</span>
</div>
</div>

The second .Astronomy conference was hosted at the Lorentz Center, Leiden University. It was the first to follow the ".Astronomy format", including a Hack Day. The conference brought together researchers, educators and technologists to discuss how a new era of surveys, web technologies and citizen science was transforming astronomy.

As the event description put it: "Astronomy is facing a paradigm shift. The huge quantities of data that will be generated by a new generation of surveys and instruments require new ways of thinking. At the same time, an ever more connected world is bringing astronomy to the masses by the vast possibilities of the web."

## Organisers

- Sarah Kendrew
- Carolina Odman

## Programme

Major themes included:

**Citizen Science**
- Galaxy Zoo and web-based platforms for citizen science
- Future citizen science projects

**New media for outreach and communication**
- IYA 2009 and the web: 100 Hours of Astronomy, The World at Night, Cosmic Diary, UNAWE, Portal to the Universe
- Podcasting and blogging astronomy
- Microblogging

**Networked technologies for research**
- Virtual observatory
- Literature tools
- Data mining

**Visualisation**
- Google Sky and Microsoft Worldwide Telescope
- Visualisation as a research aid

Invited speakers included Dr. Michael Nielsen (author of Reinventing Discovery), Dr. Arfon Smith (Oxford University), Dr. John Taylor (Google), and Prof. Andy Lawrence (Edinburgh University).

## Hacks

This was the first .Astronomy with a Hack Day. _Hack details to be added._

## GitHub Repos

_No GitHub repos linked to this event._

## Links

- [Official website archive](https://www.dotastronomy.com/two)

## Sponsors

.Astronomy 2 was generously supported by the Lorentz Center, Astron, the Royal Astronomical Society (RAS), the British Council, NWO, RadioNet, and the Platform Beta Techniek.
